# Quick calculation 
## 2.1
Verify that for $A_1, A_2\in \mathcal{F}$ the intersection $A_1 \cap A_2$ is also in $\mathcal{F}$
## Solution
A $\sigma$-algebra is defined as:
1. $\mathcal{F}$ is nonempty
2. if $A\in \mathcal{F}$ then $A^C\in \mathcal{F}$
3. if $A_1, A_2,\ldots \in \mathcal{F}$ then $\cup_{n=1}^{N}A_n \in \mathcal{F}$

From definition 2 we know that $A_1^C$ and $A_2^C$ are also in $\mathcal{F}$ and from 3. that $A_1^C \cup A_2^C \in \mathcal{F}$. From the De Morgan's rule we know
$$
    \cap_{n=1}^{N}A_n = \left(\cup_{n=1}^N A_n^C\right)^C
$$
we see that  $A_1 \cap A_2 \in \mathcal{F}$

# 2.2
Considering a die throw where all that matters to us is if the number on top is even or odd. The sigma algebra generated by this is $$\mathcal{F} = \{\emptyset, \{2, 4, 6\}, \{1,3,5\}, \Omega\}$$ where
$\Omega = \{1,2,3,4,5,6\}$.
Verify that $\mathcal{F}$ is a valid $\sigma$-algebra.

**Condition 1: Non Empty** - Obviously not (Fulfilled).

**Condition 2: Complement** - Consider the even numbers $A=\{2, 4, 6\}$, $A^C$ will then be the odd numbers as seen from definition of $\Omega$ and vise versa.

**Condition 3: Countable Unions** - Say we have $A_1 = \{1, 3, 5\}$ and $A_2 = \{2,4,6\}$ the union $A_1 \cup A_2 = \Omega$ i.e. this is also in the $\sigma$-alegbra. Also any union of $A_n$ with $\emptyset$ returns $A_n$ i.e. in the set.

# 2.3
Convince yourself that the natural filtration generated by observing the events $A_1=\{(H, H), (H, T)\}$ and $A_2={(H, T)}$ has only eight elements.

>**Natural Filtration** - A filtration is a family of $\sigma$-algebras $\{\mathcal{F}_t\}_{t \ge 0}$ indexed by time, where each $\mathcal{F}_t$ represents the information available up to time $t$. A filtration is called natural if it is generated by the stochastic process itself.

Starting by listing all sets

$\mathcal{F}_0 = \{\emptyset, \Omega\}$

$\mathcal{F}_1 = \{\emptyset,\{(H, H), (H, T)\}, \{(T, T), (T, H)\}, \Omega\}$

1. $\emptyset$
2. $\Omega = \{(H, H), (H, T), (T, T), (T, H)\}$
3. $A_1 = \{(H, H), (H, T)\}$
4. $A_1^c = \{(T, T), (T, H)\}$
5. $A_2 = \{(H, T)\}$
6. $A_2^c = \{(H, H), (T, T), (T, H)\}$
* $A_1 \cup A_2 =  \{(H, H), (H, T)\} \cup \{(H, T)\} = A_1$ 
7. $A_1 \cap A_2 =  \{(H, H), (H, T)\} \cap \{(H, T)\} = \{(H, H)\}$
8. $(A_1 \cap A_2)^c =  \{ (H, T), (T, T), (T, H)\}$


# 2.4 
Prove this statement
$$P(B\mid A)=\frac{P(A\mid B)P(B)}{P(A)}=\frac{P(A \mid B) P(B)}{P(A \mid B) P(B)+P(A \mid B^C) P(B^C)}$$
using additivity property of measures. 

The statement $P(A)=P(A \mid B) P(B)+P(A \mid B^C) P(B^C)$ trivially holds as it says $P(A)$ is equivalent to the sum of probabilities for $A$ if $B$ plus $A$ if not $B$. We can write $P(A) = P(A \cup B) + P(A \cup B^C) $ and using the definition of Bayes' rule we get the denominator.

# 2.5
Trivial

# 2.6 
Show that for a six sided die, the events of throwing an even number $A=\{2, 4, 6\}$ and throwing a number less than or equal to 4 $B=\{1, 2, 3, 4\}$ are also independent.

1. $P(A) = \frac{1}{2}$
2. $P(B) = \frac{2}{3}$
3. $P(A \cap B) = P(\{2, 4\}) = \frac{1}{3}$

Checking that $P(A \cap B) = P(A)P(B)$ ✅

# 2.7
Confirm the second equality in  $\text{Var}[X] = E[(X-E[X])^2]=E[X^2] - E[X]^2$

$$
E[(X-E[X])^2] = E[(X^2+E[X]^2-2X E[X])] = E[X^2] + E[X]^2 - 2 E[X] \cdot E[X] = E[X^2] - E[X]^2 
$$

# 2.8
Verify the second equality in $Cov[X, Y] = E[(X - E[X])(Y - E[Y])] = E[XY] - E[X]E[Y]$

$$
E[(X - E[X])(Y - E[Y])] = E[XY - X E[Y - YE[X] + E[X]E[Y]]] = \newline E[XY] - E[X]E[Y] - E[Y]E[X] + E[X]E[Y] = E[XY] - E[X]E[Y]
$$
